# Momentum-Portfolio-Tool
In the momentum assignment, our objective was to create a momentum portfolio, employing the monthly data provided by the CRSP database. Thereafter, we would calculate the returns of a long-short strategy on the momentum portfolio. This is based on the idea that stocks’ prices fluctuate, and their momentum indicates the strength or weakness in the prices issued. Stocks with high returns over the past year and stocks with poor returns over the same period will keep heading in the same direction. As a result, investors could buy (long) the past winner stocks, sell (short) the past loser stocks, and achieve particularly decent returns with little volatility.
In order to calculate the long-short returns of the momentum portfolio, we first have to calculate the momentum for each stock (i) in each month (t) over the past 12 months: momentumi,t = Pi,t-1/Pi,t-12. Subsequently, for each month (t), we had to find the historical winning stocks and losing stocks that would create the top and bottom momentum deciles. Finally, by using equal weights, we were able to calculate the returns from investing the same amount in the winning stocks and shorting the losing stocks.
To achieve these results in MATLAB, we created the momentum function (getMomentum) that will calculate the cumulative returns of the given stock from the CRSP dataset. However, when the required data is missing, the function returns NaN instead. We then created a for-loop that will utilize the momentum function to calculate the rate of change for each stock in each month. To continue, we created three equal weighted momentum returns containing the winner portfolio, the loser portfolio, and the long-short returns (obtained by subtracting the loser portfolio from the winner portfolio). Nonetheless, to ensure the portfolios that we are trading are investable, we need to verify if the returns of the stocks are non-NaN for the past 12 months.
